+++
title = "OOP"
author = ["Yuhang Guo"]
draft = false
+++

source
: [DT-On Java 8](x-devonthink-item://199347D4-709D-41DF-84EA-B02E4E11ACEE)


## Origin {#origin}

All programming languages are abstractions to better map the real world
problem to computer world.

Some early programming languages chose particular views of the world:

-   [LISP]({{< relref "20210106170212-lisp" >}}): All problems are ultimately lists
-   Prolog: Cast all problems into chains of decisions

But when step outside of that domain, they become awkward.

OOP is a more general way to abstract the real world.
Just like things/objects in the real world have characteristics and actions,
objects in OOP have states and performe operations.
When reading the codes, it's like reading the description of the problem.

> An object in OOP havs state, behavior and identity(unique memeory space). - Grady Booch


## Class {#class}

A class describes a set of objects that have identical characteritics and behaviors.

> Concept of **Class**: first used directly in Simula-67


## Design {#design}


### Think objects as service provider {#think-objects-as-service-provider}

-   break down large problems to smaller ones from top to bottom
    ask from the top: what would be needed to accomplish this goal?
-   try not let one object do too much types of service


### Distinguish Roles {#distinguish-roles}

[Access Control]({{< relref "20210106173814-access_control" >}}): keep a boundry between class creators and client programmer.


## Concepts {#concepts}

-   [Composition]({{< relref "20210106234713-composition" >}})

-   [Encapsulation]({{< relref "20210117112358-encapsulation" >}})

-   [Inheritance]({{< relref "20210106234746-inheritance" >}})

-   [Polymorphism]({{< relref "20210106234832-polymorphism" >}})

-   [Generics]({{< relref "20210107003210-generics" >}})


## Object Creation & Lifetime {#object-creation-and-lifetime}


### Problem {#problem}

Difficult to know when to destroy an object (not know if other resources useing it)


### Solution {#solution}

1.  Manually Control

    Determine objects storage and lifetime while the program is written.

    Let programmers control object life time by choosing to put the
    objects on the [stack]({{<relref "20210108151044-where_storage_lives.md" >}}) or in the static storage area. ([automatic variable]({{< relref "20210107161650-automatic_variable" >}})).

    With a priority on the speed of storage allocation and release.

2.  Dynamic Approach

    Objects are created dynamically in a pool of memory called the [heap]({{<relref "20210108151044-where_storage_lives.md" >}}).

    Their number, lifetime, type are determined until run time.

    Because the storage is managed dynamically at tun time, allocating storage **maybe** slower.

    One problem: how to determine lifetime?

    -   [Java Garbage Collector]({{< relref "20210107162957-java_garbage_collector" >}})
